Behavioral Analysis of Bitcoin users by prediction of their next transaction when encountered with a fraudulent one using LSTM regressor.<br/>
User behavior analysis is becoming essential in various fields spanning from online marketing to anomaly detection.Analysis based on user ratings gives information on users’ approval of certain products. Using the Bitcoin alpha dataset an attempt is made to understand user behavior after a fraudulent transaction. This behavior is modeled into a LSTM (Long short-term memory) network to predict their next transaction after undergoing a fraudulent one.

To achieve this firstly the dataset is pre-processed to remove fraudulent users who constantly provide negative ratings to their competitors rapidly or at regular intervals. This is done using the BIRDNEST algorithm.This algorithm implements a Bayesian model to understand types of user rating behavior and forms a likelihood estimation which measures how much a user deviates from the others.Code used for data preprocessing https://cs.stanford.edu/~srijan/rev2/ After removal of such users, data is formatted in suitable manner such that the features include rating before fraudulent transaction, fraudulent transaction rating and their corresponding time instants and their out-degree centrality.Output to the network is the time instant of rating after fraudulent transaction. These parameters are fed to an LSTM regressor to predict their time of return.

Results:<br/>
The model was successfully trained with 70% training and 30% testing data. The model comprises of 3 hidden layers with 50 units each. An RMS error of 0.04 for training and 0.05 for testing was achieved. Mean of train and test scores were 0.453 and 0.457 respectively. Hence the Sparsity Index for RMS is less than 1 indicating that the model achieved a good fit for the data.
